h1. Resque for Node.js

p. "Resque":http://github.com/defunkt/resque is a "redis":http://code.google.com/p/redis/ backed task queue inspired by "delayed job":http://github.com/tobi/delayed_job.  "Node.js":http://nodejs.org is a javascript runtime built on the "v8 engine":http://code.google.com/p/v8/.

h2. Why?

Resque.js allows you to chunk together blocks of concurrent code and work through them serially across multiple worker processes & machines.  The advantage of building this as drop-in compatible resque workers is that the monitoring interface (resque-web) is already written and it provides a nice queue interface between Rails and node.  You're probably already running resque for Rails; use it for Node, too. 

h2. Additional Dependencies

"Fictorial's Redis client":http://github.com/fictorial/redis-node-client must be available somewhere on the load path before @resque.js@ is required.

h2. Use

h3. sandwich_worker.js

<pre><code>#!/usr/bin/env node
var resque = require ("resque").connect ()
  , sys = require ("sys")

var tasks =
  { makeMeASandwich: function (sandwich) {
      var job = this
      makeSandwich (sandwich, function (err, result) {
        if (err) job.fail ({ error: err })
        else job.succeed () }) }

  , RubyTask: function () {
      sys.puts ("This task could have been pulled off a shared queue")
      this.succeed () }

  }

var worker = resque.createWorker (process.env ["QUEUE"] || "*", 'sandwich_worker', tasks).start ()

process.addListener ("SIGQUIT", worker.finish) //finish up the last task and end ()
process.addListener ("SIGKILL", worker.end)    //clean up and exit without finishing.

</code></pre>

@success()@ and @failure(error)@ callbacks are provided and can be passed in through async code to be called on completion, which frees up the worker to take another job off the queue.

To run the worker, @$ QUEUE=sandwich_factory,something_else node sandwich_worker.js@.  You can also just say @QUEUE=*@ and it will poll all of the queues.

h3. Elsewhere

<pre><code>#!/usr/bin/env node
var resque = require ("resque").connect ()
resque.enqueue ('sandwich_factory', 'makeMeASandwich',
  { bread: 'Acme Levain'
  , cheese: 'Cowgirl Creamery St Pat'
  , greens: ['arugula']
  , mustard: true
  })
</code></pre>

This code adds a @makeMeASandwich@ request to the @sandwich_factory@ resque queue.

h3. Namespaces

By default, resque uses the redis namespace of @resque:@.  If you require resque as follows, you can use a different namespace:

<pre><code>var resque = require ("resque").connect ({ namespace: "node-only" })
...</code></pre>

h3. Providing a Redis connection

If you already are connected to redis in your app, you can use that client instead of creating a new one.  To do so:

<pre><code>var redisClient = require ("redis").createClient ()
  , resque = require ("resque").connect ({ redis: redisClient })
...</code></pre>

h3. Specifying Redis port & host

If Redis is not running locally or is not bound to the default Redis port & host (localhost:6379), you can provide port and host as follows:

<pre><code>var resque = require ("resque").connect ({ host: 'redis.production.example.com', port: 1337 })
...</code></pre>

h2. Maturity & Contribution

This is fairly immature code, but we'll be using it for a production app, so it will see significant iteration and improvement in the near future. To help out, fork, commit, push, & request pull.

h2. Thanks

Thanks to "NewsBasis":http://newsbasis.com/ for making this possible.  We're cooking up some awesome stuff, and we'll be hiring very soon.  Contact me to hear more.
